Vector space model, or term vector model as it is also known, is an algebra
ic model for representing objects (although it is mainly used for text docu
ments) as vectors of identifiers; for example, index terms. It is used in i
nformation retrieval and filtering, indexing and relevancy rankings, and wa
s first used in the SMART Information Retrieval System.

A document is represented as a vector, with each dimension corresponding to
 a separate term. If a term occurs in the document, the value will be non-z
ero in the vector. Many different ways of computing these values (aka (term
) weights) have been developed; one of the best known schemes is tf-idf wei
ghting.

The way that a 'term' is defined depends on the application. Typically, ter
ms are single words, keywords, or sometimes even longer phrases. If the wor
ds are chosen as the terms, the number of dimensions in the vector is the n
umber of distinct words in the corpus.

Relevancy ranks for documents, in a keyword search, can be calculated; this
 uses the assumptions of document similarities theory, by comparing the dif
ference of angles between each document vector and the original query vecto
r, where the query is represented as same format vector as the documents.

Generally, it is easier to calculate the cosine of the angle between the ve
ctors instead of the angle itself. A zero value for the cosine indicates th
at the query and document vector are orthogonal and so had no match; this m
eans the query term did not exist in the document being considered.

However, the vector space model has limitations. Long documents are poorly 
represented due to their poor similarity values (a small scalar product and
 a large dimensionality); search keywords must match precisely the document
 terms; word substrings might result in a "false positive match"; similar c
ontext documents but different term vocabulary won't be associated, leading
 to a "false negative match"; and the order that the terms appear in the do
cument is not represented in the vector space model.
